Structured Query Language, is a programming language designed to manage data stored in relational databases. SQL operates through simple, declarative statements. This keeps data accurate and secure, and it helps maintain the integrity of databases, regardless of size.

ALTER TABLE
lets you add columns to a table in a database
AND
an operator that combines two conditions. Both condition must be true for the row to be included in the result set.
AS
Keyword in SQL that allows you to rename a column or table using an alias.
AVG()
an aggregate function that returns the average value for a numeric column
BETWEEN
operator is used to filter the result set within a certain range. The values can be numbers, test or dates
CASE
used to create different outputs(usually in the SELECT statement.) It is SQL's way of handling if-then logic
COUNT()
a function that takes the name of a column as an argument and counts the number of rows where the column is not NULL
CREATE TABLE
creates a new table in the database. It allows you to specify the name of the table and the name of each column in the table.
DELETE
statements are used to remove rows from a table.
GROUP BY
A clause in SQL that is only used with aggregate functions. It is used in collaboration with the SELECT statement to arrange identical data into groups
HAVING
Where keyword could not be used with aggregate functions.
INNER JOIN
an inner join will combine rows from different tables if the join condition is true
INSERT
statements are used to add a new row to a table
IS NULL / IS NOT NULL
IS NULL and IS NOT NULL  are operators used with the WHERE clause to test for empty values
LIKE
special operator used with the WHERE clause to search for a specific patter in a column
LIMIT
a clause that lets you specify the maximum number of rows the result set will have
MAX()
returns largest value in that column
MIN()
returns smallest value in that column
OR
filters the result set to only include rows where either condition is true
ORDER BY
clause that indicates you want to sort the result set by a particular column either alphabetically or numerically
OUTER JOIN
an outer join will combine rows from different tables even if the join condition is not met. Every row in the left table is returned in the result set, and if the join condition is not met, then NULL values are used to fill in the columns from the right table.
ROUND()
function that takes a column name and an integer as an argument. It rounds the values in the column to the number of decimal places specified by the integer.
SELECT
fetch data from db
SELECT DISTINCT
query that returns unique values in the specified columns
SUM
function that takes the name of a column as an argument and returns the sum of all the values in that column
UPDATE
allow you to edit rows in a table
WHERE
clause that indicates you want to filter the result set to include only rows where the following condition is true
WITH
lets you store the result of a query in a temporary table using an alias. You can also define multiple temporary tables using a comma and with one instance of the WITH keyword. The WITH clause is also known as common table expression(CTE) and subquery factoring.